# Reverse a linked list
Given pointer to the head node of a linked list, the task is to reverse the linked list. We need to reverse the list by changing the links between nodes.

**Examples**:

> **Input**: Head of following linked list  
> 1->2->3->4->NULL  
> **Output**: Linked list should be changed to,  
> 4->3->2->1->NULL
> 
> **Input**: Head of following linked list  
> 1->2->3->4->5->NULL  
> **Output**: Linked list should be changed to,  
> 5->4->3->2->1->NULL
> 
> **Input**: NULL  
> **Output**: NULL
## Solution


#### Approach #1 (Iterative) 
Assume that we have linked list  `1 → 2 → 3 → Ø`, we would like to change it to  `Ø ← 1 ← 2 ← 3`.

While you are traversing the list, change the current node's next pointer to point to its previous element. Since a node does not have reference to its previous node, you must store its previous element beforehand. You also need another pointer to store the next node before changing the reference. Do not forget to return the new head reference at the end!

### Approach

Let’s have a look at an iterative approach of how to reverse a given linked list:

-   Initialize the following node pointers:
    -   **`previous`**: Initially pointing at  `None`, this node pointer points to the previous element so that the  `next`  link of the node can be reversed using it. This node pointer is then updated to the node next to it (i.e.,  `current`).
        
    -   **`current`**: Initially pointing to  `head`, the node being pointed to by this node pointer gets its  `next`  variable set to the  `previous`  item in the list. This node pointer is then updated to the node next to it (i.e.,  `following`).
        
    -   **`following`**: Initially pointing to the second node, this node pointer​ is used so that the  `current`  pointer may move one step ahead in each iteration.

**Implementation**
```c++
ListNode* reverseList(ListNode* head) {
  // Initialize current, previous and 
  // following pointers 
  Node * current = head;
  Node * previous = NULL;
  Node * following = current -> next;

  while (current != NULL) {
    // reverse the link
    current -> next = previous;

    // move previous one step ahead
    previous = current;

    // move current one step ahead
    current = following;

    // move following to the next element if it exists
    if (following)
      following = following -> next;
  }
  head = previous;
}

```

**Complexity analysis**

-   Time complexity : O(n). Assume that  nn  is the list's length, the time complexity is  O(n).
    
-   Space complexity :  O(1).
    

----------

#### Approach #2 (Recursive)

The recursive version is slightly trickier and the key is to work backwards. Assume that the rest of the list had already been reversed, now how do I reverse the front part? Let's assume the list is: n1  → … → nk-1  → nk  → nk+1  → … → nm  → Ø

Assume from node nk+1  to nm  had been reversed and you are at node nk.

n1  → … → nk-1  →  **nk**  → nk+1  ← … ← nm

We want nk+1’s next node to point to nk.

So,

nk.next.next = nk;

Be very careful that n1's next must point to Ø. If you forget about this, your linked list has a cycle in it. This bug could be caught if you test your code with a linked list of size 2.
### Approach
 1) Divide the list in two parts - first node and 
      rest of the linked list.
   2) Call reverse for the rest of the linked list.
   3) Link rest to first.
   4) Fix head pointer
```c++
ListNode* reverseList(ListNode* head) {
    if (head == NULL || head->next == NULL)
     return head;
    ListNode* p = reverseList(head->next);
    head->next->next = head;
    head->next = null;
    return p;
}

```

**Complexity analysis**

-   Time complexity :  O(n). Assume that n is the list's length, the time complexity is  O(n).
    
-   Space complexity :  O(n). The extra space comes from implicit stack space due to recursion. The recursion could go up to n levels deep.
