
# Why Linked Lists?

Array was also a linear data structure. Then why do we need Linked List?

Let's understand the difference between linked list and arrays.

Let’s see some disadvantages of Arrays.

### Disadvantages of Arrays:

-   Pre allocates all needed memory up front and waste memory for indices in the array that are empty.
    
-   The size of the array is static ( fixed and specify the array size before using it). We can’t add more elements to it once we define it initially.
    
-   One block allocation: Sometimes it may not be possible to get the memory for the complete array if array size is big.
    
-   Insertion and Deletion operation requires shifting which is an expensive process.
    

## Advantages of Linked List:

-   Dynamic Data Structure: Linked list is a dynamic data structure so it can grow and shrink at runtime by allocating and deallocating memory. So there is no need to give the initial size of a linked list.
    
-   Insertion and Deletion: Insertion and deletion of nodes are really easier. Unlike arrays here we don’t have to shift elements after insertion or deletion of an element. In a linked list we just have to update the address present in the next pointer of a node.
    

No Memory Wastage: As the size of the linked list can increase or decrease at run time so there is no memory wastage. In the case of arrays there is a lot of memory wastage, like if we declare an array of size 10 and store only 6 elements in it then space of 4 elements is wasted. There is no such problem in linked lists as memory is allocated only when required.
